Hello and welcome to the second step
of part two, building the RNN.
In this second step, we're gonna add the first LSTM layer
of our regular neural network which was introduced
as a sequence of layers
and also some Dropout regularisation.
Why do we add some Dropout regularisation?
That's, of course, to avoid Overfitting.
We don't want any Overfitting when predicting
the stock price and on a general rule.
So, let's do this, let's add this first LSTM layer
and Dropout regularisation.
It's gonna take two lines of code.
One line to add this first LSTM layer,
and one line to add the Dropout regularisation.
So, let's start with adding our first LSTM layer.
That's really easy, we take our regressor.
Regressor is an object of the sequential class.
The sequential class contains the add method.
That allows to add some layers of neural network,
so we're adding here, dot and then this add method.
There we go.
And inside the add method, we need to input the layer,
the type of layer we want to add.
And of course, what we want to add is an LSTM layer.
That's where we use the LSTM class,
because actually what we are adding in this add method
will be an object of the LSTM class.
And this subject will represent nothing else
than this LSTM layer.
So, let's do this.
We create this LSTM layer by creating
an object of the L-S-T-M class,
which will take several arguments now
and now, please focus, this is very important.
We need to input three arguments,
and it's very important to understand what they are.
These three arguments are, first, the number of units,
which is the number of LSTM cells or units
you want to have in this LSTM layer.
We will choose a relevant number,
and I will explain in a minute
what this relevant number will be.
Then, the second argument of this LSTM class,
is return sequences and we will have to
set it equal to true, because we are building
a stacked LSTM which therefore will
have several LSTM layers and when you add another LSTM layer
after the one you are creating right now,
well you have to set the return sequences argument to true.
Once you are done with your LSTM layers,
you are not gonna add another one after that,
you will set it equal to false,
but you won't even have to do this
because this is the default value
of the return sequences parameter.
Alright, that's for the second argument.
Now, the third and last argument is input_shape,
and that is exactly the shape of the
input containing x_train that we created
in the last step of the data preprocessing part.
It's an input shape in three dimensions, in 3-D,
corresponding to the observations,
the time steps, and the indicators.
But in this third argument of the LSTM class,
we won't have to include the three dimensions,
only the two last ones corresponding
to the time steps and the indicators,
because the first one, corresponding to the observations,
will be automatically taken into account.
So, you will see, we will only specify x_train.shape[1],
corresponding to the time steps, and [1] corresponding
to the predictors, the indicators.
That's our three arguments
and so therefore let's input them now,
starting with the units.
Which I remind is the number of LSTM cells, or memory units,
but for simplicity's sake, I will just call them neurons,
that you want to have in this first LSTM layer.
What is this number going to be?
Well, even if we are going to stack many layers,
we want our model to have a very high dimensionality.
So, indeed we're making this dimensionality high
thanks to the multiple LSTM layers that we're gonna add,
but we can increase even more this dimensionality
by including a large number of neurons
in each of the LSTM layers.
Since capturing the trends
of a stock price is pretty complex,
we need to have this high dimensionality
and therefore we also need to have a large number of neurons
in each of the multiple LSTM layers.
And therefore, number of neurons we'll choose
for this first LSTM layer is gonna be 50.
50 neurons in this first LSTM layer and then
in the next ones, they will also have 50 neurons,
will get us a model with high dimensionality.
And if we had chosen a too small number
of neurons in each of the LSTM layers,
like, for example, three to five neurons,
well, that would be too little and it wouldn't
be able to capture very well the upward and downward trends.
But with 50 neurons, this will lead us to better results.
That's the first argument, this is what we
have to input here, so that's done.
And now the second argument,
as you remember, is return sequences.
So return_sequences, spelled like that.
That we have to set equal to true,
and I remind us because we're gonna add
another LSTM layer after this one
because we're making a stacked LSTM neural network
and therefore, when you're adding another one,
you have to set this return sequence parameter to true.
Perfect, and now final argument, input_shape,
which, as we said, only contains the last two dimensions
corresponding to the time steps and the indicators.
Therefore, I'm simply going to copy this
and I'm gonna paste it inside some new parenthesis
because they will contain these two dimensions,
x_train.shape one corresponding to the time steps,
and one corresponding to the predictors, the indicators.
But make sure to understand,
we still have this 3-D structure
that we made in this first part data preprocessing.
Alright, so, that's done for the first LSTM layer.
Now we're gonna take care of the second sub-step
of this first step building the architecture
of the neural network,
that is adding some Dropout regularisation.
We're gonna do that in a new line of code,
and to do this, well, that's very simple.
We take again our regressor,
then we use the add method
of the sequential class, and now, as you can imagine,
it works exactly the same way as for the LSTM.
We are gonna create an object of the Dropout class,
which we already imported,
to include this Dropout regularisation.
And therefore, exactly for the LSTM,
we need to specify here the name of this class, Dropout,
which will take only one argument this time,
which is the Dropout rate.
You saw in the Improving and Tuning the Models
of Parts 1 and 2A and seeing in them how Dropout works.
You need to specify this Dropout rate,
which is the rate of neurons you wanna drop,
that is you wanna ignore,
in the layers to do this regularisation.
And the classic number to use,
and which I recommend to use because it's quite relevant,
is to drop 20% of your neurons in the layer.
And this 20% is exactly what we need to input here.
I'm gonna add 0.2, corresponding to exactly 20%.
So, we're gonna have 20% Dropout,
that is the 20% of the neurons of the LSTM layer,
will be ignored during the training,
that is during the forward propagation and back propagation
happening in each iteration of the training.
Therefore, since 20% of 50 is 10 neurons,
that means that 10 neurons will be ignored and dropped out
during each iteration of the training.
So, perfect, we are done with our first LSTM layer,
to which we added some Dropout regularisation.
Perfect, our LSTM is getting into shape.
Now we're gonna add some more LSTM layers
until we're gonna add a total of four LSTM layers,
so that will make a big, stacked LSTM
and we will do it very efficiently, of course,
because it's basically almost the same as what we did here,
we will just need to remove this.
Alright, so let's do that in the next tutorial.
We will add these other LSTM layers in one same tutorial.
And now just before I say goodbye to you,
I'm going to select these two lines
to add this first LSTM and the Dropout regularisation.
So let's execute, there we go, first LSTM layer added
and Dropout regularisation added as well.
Perfect, now let's move on to the next LSTM layers
and we'll do that in the next tutorial.
Until then, enjoy Deep Learning.